pages/_en-US/acww-research/main-structure.md, before:

---
lang: en-US
layout: wiki
section: acww-research
title: Main Structure
---

Here you'll find the structure of the Main part from AC:WW.

### NOTE 1:
EUR, USA and JPN have a special character encoding, which i marked with the Datatype `WWChar`. For more about it, look at the Character Encoding part [here](character-encoding).

## Structures
<details>
 <summary>EUR_USA Main Struct</summary>

{% capture eur_usa %}
| Offset          | Datatype        | Size     | Content                 |
| --------------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------------- |
| 0x0 - 0x15FDF   |                 | 0x15FE0  | Main Save Size          |
|                 |                 |          |                         |
| 0x0 - 0x1       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | See [Gamecode](#gamecode) |
| 0x2 - 0x3       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | Town ID                 |
| 0x4 - 0xB       | WWChar          | 0x8      | Town Name               |
| 0xC - 0x2297    | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 1                |
| 0x2298 - 0x4523 | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 2                |
| 0x4524 - 0x67AF | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 3                |
| 0x67B0 - 0x8A3B | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 4                |
| 0x8A3C - 0x913B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 1              |
| 0x913C - 0x983B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 2              |
| 0x983C - 0x9F3B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 3              |
| 0x9F3C - 0xA63B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 4              |
| 0xA63C - 0xAD3B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 5              |
| 0xAD3C - 0xB43B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 6              |
| 0xB43C - 0xBB3B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 7              |
| 0xBB3C - 0xC23B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 8              |
| 0xC23C - 0xC32F | uint8_t         | 0xF4     | Unknown 1               |
| 0xC330 - 0xC353 | uint8_t         | 0x24     | 36 Acres                |
| 0xC354 - 0xE353 | uint16_t        | 0x2000   | 4096 Town Map Items     |
| 0xE354 - 0xE553 | Bit Indexes     | 0x200    | 4096 Buried Item bits   |
| 0xE554 - 0xE554 | uint8_t         | 0x1      | Grasstype               |
| 0xE555 - 0xE557 | uint8_t         | 0x3      | Unknown 2               |
| 0xE558 - 0xFAF8 | House_Struct    | 0x15A1   | House Data              |
{% endcapture %}

{{ eur_usa | markdownify }}

</details>

<details>
 <summary>JPN Main Struct</summary>

{% capture jpn %}
| Offset          | Datatype        | Size     | Content                 |
| --------------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------------- |
| 0x0 - 0x12223   |                 | 0x12224  | Main Save Size          |
|                 |                 |          |                         |
| 0x0 - 0x1       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | See [Gamecode](#gamecode) |
| 0x2 - 0x3       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | Town ID                 |
| 0x4 - 0x9       | WWChar          | 0x6      | Town Name               |
| 0xA - 0xB       | uint8_t         | 0x2      | Unknown 1               |
| 0xC - 0x1D1B    | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 1                |
| 0x1D1C - 0x3A2B | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 2                |
| 0x3A2C - 0x573B | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 3                |
| 0x573C - 0x744B | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 4                |
| 0x744C - 0x7A0B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 1              |
| 0x7A0C - 0x7FCB | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 2              |
| 0x7FCC - 0x858B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 3              |
| 0x858C - 0x8B4B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 4              |
| 0x8B4C - 0x910B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 5              |
| 0x910C - 0x96CB | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 6              |
| 0x96CC - 0x9C8B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 7              |
| 0x9C8C - 0xA24B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 8              |
| 0xA24C - 0xA32B | uint8_t         | 0xE0     | Unknown 2               |
| 0xA32C - 0xA34F | uint8_t         | 0x24     | 36 Acres                |
| 0xA350 - 0xC34F | uint16_t        | 0x2000   | 4096 Town Map Items     |
| 0xC350 - 0xC54F | Bit Indexes     | 0x200    | 4096 Buried Item bits   |
| 0xC550 - 0xC550 | uint8_t         | 0x1      | Grasstype               |
| 0xC551 - 0xC553 | uint8_t         | 0x3      | Unknown 3               |
| 0xC554 - 0xDAF4 | House_Struct    | 0x15A1   | House Data              |
{% endcapture %}

{{ jpn | markdownify }}

</details>

<details>
 <summary>KOR Main Struct</summary>

{%capture kor %}
| Offset            | Datatype        | Size     | Content                 |
| ----------------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------------- |
| 0x0 - 0x173FB     |                 | 0x173FC  | Main Save Size          |
|                   |                 |          |                         |
| 0x0 - 0x1         | uint16_t        | 0x2      | See [Gamecode](#gamecode) |
| 0x2 - 0x3         | uint16_t        | 0x2      | Town ID                 |
| 0x4 - 0xF         | char16_t        | 0xC      | Town Name               |
| 0x10 - 0x13       | uint8_t         | 0x4      | Unknown 1               |
| 0x14 - 0x24AF     | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 1                |
| 0x24B0 - 0x494B   | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 2                |
| 0x494C - 0x6DE7   | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 3                |
| 0x6DE8 - 0x9283   | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 4                |
| 0x9284 - 0x9A6F   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 1              |
| 0x9A70 - 0xA25B   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 2              |
| 0xA25C - 0xAA47   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 3              |
| 0xAA48 - 0xB233   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 4              |
| 0xB234 - 0xBA1F   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 5              |
| 0xBA20 - 0xC20B   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 6              |
| 0xC20C - 0xC9F7   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 7              |
| 0xC9F8 - 0xD1E3   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 8              |
| 0xD1E4 - 0xD303   | uint8_t         | 0x120    | Unknown 1               |
| 0xD304 - 0xD327   | uint8_t         | 0x24     | 36 Acres                |
| 0xD328 - 0xF327   | uint16_t        | 0x2000   | 4096 Town Map Items     |
| 0xF328 - 0xF527   | Bit Indexes     | 0x200    | 4096 Buried Item bits   |
| 0xF528 - 0xF528   | uint8_t         | 0x1      | Grasstype               |
| 0xF529 - 0xF52B   | uint8_t         | 0x3      | Unknown 3               |
| 0xF52C - 0x10ACC  | House_Struct    | 0x15A1   | House Data              |
{% endcapture %}

{{ kor | markdownify}}

</details>

### Gamecode
Byte 0x0 seems to contain a Gamecode or something like that in the savefile, which is listed below.

Byte 0x1 seems to be always 0x0.

| Gamecode | Region   |
| -------- | -------- |
| 0xC5     | Europe   |
| 0x8A     | USA      |
| 0x32     | Japanese |
| 0x32     | Korean   |

### Acres
Editing Acres can potential damage your savefile, so it's important to know what you are doing.

Information will follow of what breaks the savefile.

### Buried Bits
Each of the 4096 Town Map Items has one bit. Per byte, there are 8 items, so -> 4096 / 8 --> 512.. which is 0x200 in hex.

If the bit is 1, then it is buried, else unburied.

### Grass-Snowtype
There exist 3 types of pattern for the grass / snow.

| Grass / Snow       | Value |
| ------------------ | ----- |
| Triangle / Square  | 0x0   |
| Circle / Star      | 0x1   |
| Square / Hexagon   | 0x2   |

Commit message:

It's a Identifier.. not a gamecode.
How did i even came up with gamecode in the first place...?

pages/_en-US/acww-research/main-structure.md, after:

---
lang: en-US
layout: wiki
section: acww-research
title: Main Structure
---

Here you'll find the structure of the Main part from AC:WW.

### NOTE 1:
EUR, USA and JPN have a special character encoding, which i marked with the Datatype `WWChar`. For more about it, look at the Character Encoding part [here](character-encoding).

## Structures
<details>
 <summary>EUR_USA Main Struct</summary>

{% capture eur_usa %}
| Offset          | Datatype        | Size     | Content                 |
| --------------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------------- |
| 0x0 - 0x15FDF   |                 | 0x15FE0  | Main Save Size          |
|                 |                 |          |                         |
| 0x0 - 0x1       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | See [Identifier](#identifier) |
| 0x2 - 0x3       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | Town ID                 |
| 0x4 - 0xB       | WWChar          | 0x8      | Town Name               |
| 0xC - 0x2297    | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 1                |
| 0x2298 - 0x4523 | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 2                |
| 0x4524 - 0x67AF | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 3                |
| 0x67B0 - 0x8A3B | Player_Struct   | 0x228C   | Player 4                |
| 0x8A3C - 0x913B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 1              |
| 0x913C - 0x983B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 2              |
| 0x983C - 0x9F3B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 3              |
| 0x9F3C - 0xA63B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 4              |
| 0xA63C - 0xAD3B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 5              |
| 0xAD3C - 0xB43B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 6              |
| 0xB43C - 0xBB3B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 7              |
| 0xBB3C - 0xC23B | Villager_Struct | 0x700    | Villager 8              |
| 0xC23C - 0xC32F | uint8_t         | 0xF4     | Unknown 1               |
| 0xC330 - 0xC353 | uint8_t         | 0x24     | 36 Acres                |
| 0xC354 - 0xE353 | uint16_t        | 0x2000   | 4096 Town Map Items     |
| 0xE354 - 0xE553 | Bit Indexes     | 0x200    | 4096 Buried Item bits   |
| 0xE554 - 0xE554 | uint8_t         | 0x1      | Grasstype               |
| 0xE555 - 0xE557 | uint8_t         | 0x3      | Unknown 2               |
| 0xE558 - 0xFAF8 | House_Struct    | 0x15A1   | House Data              |
{% endcapture %}

{{ eur_usa | markdownify }}

</details>

<details>
 <summary>JPN Main Struct</summary>

{% capture jpn %}
| Offset          | Datatype        | Size     | Content                 |
| --------------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------------- |
| 0x0 - 0x12223   |                 | 0x12224  | Main Save Size          |
|                 |                 |          |                         |
| 0x0 - 0x1       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | See [Identifier](#identifier) |
| 0x2 - 0x3       | uint16_t        | 0x2      | Town ID                 |
| 0x4 - 0x9       | WWChar          | 0x6      | Town Name               |
| 0xA - 0xB       | uint8_t         | 0x2      | Unknown 1               |
| 0xC - 0x1D1B    | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 1                |
| 0x1D1C - 0x3A2B | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 2                |
| 0x3A2C - 0x573B | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 3                |
| 0x573C - 0x744B | Player_Struct   | 0x1D10   | Player 4                |
| 0x744C - 0x7A0B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 1              |
| 0x7A0C - 0x7FCB | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 2              |
| 0x7FCC - 0x858B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 3              |
| 0x858C - 0x8B4B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 4              |
| 0x8B4C - 0x910B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 5              |
| 0x910C - 0x96CB | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 6              |
| 0x96CC - 0x9C8B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 7              |
| 0x9C8C - 0xA24B | Villager_Struct | 0x5C0    | Villager 8              |
| 0xA24C - 0xA32B | uint8_t         | 0xE0     | Unknown 2               |
| 0xA32C - 0xA34F | uint8_t         | 0x24     | 36 Acres                |
| 0xA350 - 0xC34F | uint16_t        | 0x2000   | 4096 Town Map Items     |
| 0xC350 - 0xC54F | Bit Indexes     | 0x200    | 4096 Buried Item bits   |
| 0xC550 - 0xC550 | uint8_t         | 0x1      | Grasstype               |
| 0xC551 - 0xC553 | uint8_t         | 0x3      | Unknown 3               |
| 0xC554 - 0xDAF4 | House_Struct    | 0x15A1   | House Data              |
{% endcapture %}

{{ jpn | markdownify }}

</details>

<details>
 <summary>KOR Main Struct</summary>

{%capture kor %}
| Offset            | Datatype        | Size     | Content                 |
| ----------------- | --------------- | -------- | ----------------------- |
| 0x0 - 0x173FB     |                 | 0x173FC  | Main Save Size          |
|                   |                 |          |                         |
| 0x0 - 0x1         | uint16_t        | 0x2      | See [Identifier](#identifier) |
| 0x2 - 0x3         | uint16_t        | 0x2      | Town ID                 |
| 0x4 - 0xF         | char16_t        | 0xC      | Town Name               |
| 0x10 - 0x13       | uint8_t         | 0x4      | Unknown 1               |
| 0x14 - 0x24AF     | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 1                |
| 0x24B0 - 0x494B   | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 2                |
| 0x494C - 0x6DE7   | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 3                |
| 0x6DE8 - 0x9283   | Player_Struct   | 0x249C   | Player 4                |
| 0x9284 - 0x9A6F   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 1              |
| 0x9A70 - 0xA25B   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 2              |
| 0xA25C - 0xAA47   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 3              |
| 0xAA48 - 0xB233   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 4              |
| 0xB234 - 0xBA1F   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 5              |
| 0xBA20 - 0xC20B   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 6              |
| 0xC20C - 0xC9F7   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 7              |
| 0xC9F8 - 0xD1E3   | Villager_Struct | 0x7EC    | Villager 8              |
| 0xD1E4 - 0xD303   | uint8_t         | 0x120    | Unknown 1               |
| 0xD304 - 0xD327   | uint8_t         | 0x24     | 36 Acres                |
| 0xD328 - 0xF327   | uint16_t        | 0x2000   | 4096 Town Map Items     |
| 0xF328 - 0xF527   | Bit Indexes     | 0x200    | 4096 Buried Item bits   |
| 0xF528 - 0xF528   | uint8_t         | 0x1      | Grasstype               |
| 0xF529 - 0xF52B   | uint8_t         | 0x3      | Unknown 3               |
| 0xF52C - 0x10ACC  | House_Struct    | 0x15A1   | House Data              |
{% endcapture %}

{{ kor | markdownify}}

</details>

### Identifier
Byte 0x0 seems to contain a identifier or something like that in the savefile, which is listed below.

Byte 0x1 seems to be always 0x0.

| Identifier | Region   |
| ---------- | -------- |
| 0xC5       | Europe   |
| 0x8A       | USA      |
| 0x32       | Japanese |
| 0x32       | Korean   |

### Acres
Editing Acres can potential damage your savefile, so it's important to know what you are doing.

Information will follow of what breaks the savefile.

### Buried Bits
Each of the 4096 Town Map Items has one bit. Per byte, there are 8 items, so -> 4096 / 8 --> 512.. which is 0x200 in hex.

If the bit is 1, then it is buried, else unburied.

### Grass-Snowtype
There exist 3 types of pattern for the grass / snow.

| Grass / Snow       | Value |
| ------------------ | ----- |
| Triangle / Square  | 0x0   |
| Circle / Star      | 0x1   |
| Square / Hexagon   | 0x2   |
